README.md, before:

# cronitor-airflow
Cronitor integration for Airflow



## Setting up the Cronitor Airflow provider

### Installation
Install the package using pip:

```bash
pip install apache-airflow-providers-cronitor
```

### Create a connection
Then, you need to create an Airflow "Connection" to store your Cronitor API key. There are a number of ways you can do this, including storing the connection information using a [Secrets Backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html#configuration).

The simplest way to quickly create the connection is to use the Airflow UI:
![img.png](static/img.png)
 
Once you've selected "Connections", click "add a new record":

![img_1.png](static/img_1.png)

You will then see the "Add Connection" form. Select "Cronitor" as the connection type. It should be available as long as you have properly installed `apache-airflow-providers-cronitor` in your Airflow environment.

![img_2.png](static/img_2.png)

The best name for the connection is **cronitor_default**, following the default connection names for Airflow. This is the default Cronitor connection name used by the hook and operator.
Finally, add your API key, and save.

## Usage
### Use the Operator directly

With that, you are ready to use the operator. Using the operator directly is simple. To import the operator:

```python
from cronitor_airflow.operators.cronitor_operator import CronitorOperator
```

Please note that when setting the `monitor_id` from the Cronitor monitor you plan to ping, you must use the monitor's _key_, not the name.

For a full example of how to use the operator, take a look at this [sample DAG](examples/example_operator_dag.py) provided.

## Usage Notes
* When using the operator, `monitor_id` must be the key of your Cronitor monitor. You cannot use the monitor's name.
* Autodiscover does not currently support complex [timetables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/timetable.html). Any timetable that cannot be generalized to a cron schedule will be ignored, and noted as such in the logs.

Commit message:

Add autodiscover (#1)
* Initial autodiscover DAG base

* fix provider name

* Add autoprovision DAG for monitors

* update readme

README.md, after:

# cronitor-airflow
Cronitor integration for Airflow



## Setting up the Cronitor Airflow provider

### Installation
Install the package using pip:

```bash
pip install apache-airflow-providers-cronitor
```

### Create a connection
Then, you need to create an Airflow "Connection" to store your Cronitor API key. There are a number of ways you can do this, including storing the connection information using a [Secrets Backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html#configuration).

The simplest way to quickly create the connection is to use the Airflow UI:
![img.png](static/img.png)
 
Once you've selected "Connections", click "add a new record":

![img_1.png](static/img_1.png)

You will then see the "Add Connection" form. Select "Cronitor" as the connection type. It should be available as long as you have properly installed `apache-airflow-providers-cronitor` in your Airflow environment.

![img_2.png](static/img_2.png)

The best name for the connection is **cronitor_default**, following the default connection names for Airflow. This is the default Cronitor connection name used by the hook and operator.
Finally, add your API key, and save.

## Usage
### Use the Operator directly

With that, you are ready to use the operator. Using the operator directly is simple. To import the operator:

```python
from cronitor_airflow.operators.cronitor_operator import CronitorOperator
```

Please note that when setting the `monitor_id` from the Cronitor monitor you plan to ping, you must use the monitor's _key_, not the name.

For a full example of how to use the operator, take a look at this [sample DAG](examples/example_operator_dag.py) provided.

#### Usage Notes
* When using the operator, `monitor_id` must be the key of your Cronitor monitor. You cannot use the monitor's name.

### Autoprovision monitors
The Cronitor Airflow integration can automatically watch your Airflow instances for active DAGs and create monitors in Cronitor that correspond to those DAGs. This is done via a specialized DAG that we've pre-written for you.

To use it, all you have to do is import and initialize the DAG in any Python file in the folder you are using to store your Airflow DAGs. (This is set by the `dags_folder` setting in `airflow.cfg`.)

```python
from cronitor_airflow.example_dags.cronitor_autodiscover import autoprovision_monitors

# Defaults to the connection `cronitor_default`.
dag_1 = autoprovision_monitors()

# To specify a custom connection name:
dag_2 = autoprovision_monitors(cronitor_conn_id='cronitor_connection_2')
```

Airflow will load the DAG on the next DagBag refresh. Make sure you turn on the DAG in the Airflow UI once it is loaded so that it can start running.

#### Usage Notes
* Currently, autodiscover will only provision and update monitors for DAGs that in the DagBag and turned on. 
* Autodiscover does not currently support complex [timetables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/timetable.html). Any timetable that cannot be generalized to a cron schedule will be ignored, and noted as such in the logs.
